---
title: Off We Ger
author: LeeAnne Adams
layout: post
permalink: /mongolia/off-we-ger.html
thumbnail: http://farm1.static.flickr.com/90/219754493_62c3a22171
thumbnail_alt: Ger Ya Later!
geo_latitude:
  - 47.921378
geo_longitude:
  - 106.90554
geo_address:
  - Ulaanbaatar, Tov, Mongolia
geo_enabled:
  - 1
geo_public:
  - 1
categories:
  - Mongolia
tags:
  - Asia
  - driver
  - Eurasian steppe
  - jeep
  - Mongolia
  - nomads
  - peanut butter
  - public transport
  - sheep
  - travelers
  - vodka
  - yak
  - yogurt
  - Yurt
---
Part of the allure of Mongolia is getting the heck out of UB and heading to the countryside. The only complication with that is that you can&#8217;t just hop on a bus and wing it like we have in other countries. There is very little public transport and the distances between towns is quite vast. Most travelers pre-book an organized tour or arrive in town and hire a jeep and driver to get them out into the countryside. Since we&#8217;re not really interested in the former and the latter is just a little out of our budget, we opted for a trek with Ger to Ger. The extra bonus is that they have a great philosophy.

We&#8217;ll be spending the next 8 days trekking with local nomads from one families&#8217; ger (yurt) to the next through the Arhangai region of Mongolia. We&#8217;ll experience their way of life and their food. We&#8217;ll also learn nifty tricks like how to play the national anklebone game, how to milk a sheep and how to pack a yak &#8211; all new skills we&#8217;ll surely be able to add to our resume!

Seriously, can you think of a better thing for two non-meat eating, non-vodka drinking, non-Mongolia speaking people to do than to throw themselves at the mercy of nomads for a week? We&#8217;ll be eating lots of rice and yogurt. And of course we&#8217;ll drag along some peanut butter just in case. We can&#8217;t think of a better way to enjoy Mongolia!

If you&#8217;re really bored at work, you can read about our trek and the ger to ger philosophy at [http://www.gertoger.org/families-route/arhangai-bluelake-route.html][1]

We&#8217;ll let you know how it gers!

 [1]: http://www.gertoger.org/